Add guide for `ActiveRecord::DelegatedType` [skip ci] (#46190)
rails/rails: guides/source/association_basics.md

```sql
SELECT "vehicles".* FROM "vehicles" WHERE "vehicles"."type" IN ('Car')
```

> Delegated types
> ------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delegated types
-----------------
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2729

> 

Reviewer 2: This starts abruptly, lets add example of what the problem is first?

Author: ok. Correct the content 👍

Author: @vipulnsward 

Thank you for your review.
After presenting the `STI` problem, changed the explanation to use an example.
How about an explanation after the change?

If a Message has a subject, but the comment does not, well, now the comment does anyway.

The superclass is a concrete class that is represented by its own table, where all the superclass attributes that are shared amongst all the subclasses are stored. And then each of the subclasses have their own individual tables for additional attributes that are particular to their implementation.

### Declare `delegated_type`

First, declare a `delegated_type` in the superclass `Entry`.

```ruby
# Schema: entries[ id, account_id, creator_id, created_at, updated_at, entryable_type, entryable_id ]
class Entry < ApplicationRecord
  delegated_type :entryable, types: %w[ Message Comment ], dependent: :destroy
end
```

The name of the `delegated_type` definition specifies `entryable`. Also, specified subclasses `Message`, `Comment` as the delegate.

The `Entry` class has `entryable_type` and `entryable_id` fields. This is the field with the `_type`, `_id` suffixes added to the name `entryable` in the `delegated_type` definition.
`entryable_type` stores the subclass name of the delegatee, and `entryable_id` stores the record id of the delegatee subclass.

> Next, define a module that implements `delegated types`. Declares the `entryable` specified in the `delegated_type` definition to `has_one` association to `entry`.

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2804

```ruby
module Entryable
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    has_one :entry, as: :entryable, touch: true
  end
end
```

And then include the created module in your subclass.

```ruby
# Schema: messages[ id, subject, body ]
class Message < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
end

# Schema: comments[ id, content ]
class Comment < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
end
```

> This completes the definition of `delegated types`. Entry implements the following methods:

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2830

Entry#entryable_name  # => "message" or "comment"
Entry.messages        # => Entry.where(entryable_type: "Message")
Entry#message?        # => true when entryable_type == "Message"
Entry#message         # => returns the message record, when entryable_type == "Message", otherwise nil
Entry#message_id      # => returns entryable_id, when entryable_type == "Message", otherwise nil
Entry.comments        # => Entry.where(entryable_type: "Comment")
Entry#comment?        # => true when entryable_type == "Comment"
Entry#comment         # => returns the comment record, when entryable_type == "Comment", otherwise nil
Entry#comment_id      # => returns entryable_id, when entryable_type == "Comment", otherwise nil
```

### Object creation

When creating an `Entry` model, create a subclass object at the same time.
This is created at the same time by specifying an object of subclass `Message` in the `entryable` of the `Entry` class.

```ruby
Entry.create! entryable: Message.new(subject: "hello!")
```

### Adding further delegation

If you want to make further queries on `Entry`, you can define `delegates` and use polymorphism to delegate to subclasses.

> This delegates the `title` method from `Entry` to subclasses.

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2857

The disadvantage of this approach is that it results in bloat to that table. Since it will even include attributes specific to a subclass that aren't used by anything else.

In the following example, there are two Active Record models that inherit from the same "Entry" class which includes the `subject` attribute.

```ruby
# Schema: entries[ id, type, subject, created_at, updated_at]
class Entry < ApplicationRecord
end

class Comment < Entry
end

class Message < Entry
end
```

Delegated types solves this problem, via `delegated_type`.

In order to use delegated types, we have to model our data in a particular way. The requirements are as follows:

* There is a superclass that stores shared attributes among all subclasses in it's table.
* Each subclass must inherit from the super class, and will have a separate table for any additional attributes specific to it.

This eliminates the need to define attributes in a single table that are unintentionally shared among all subclasses.

> In order to apply this to our example about, we need to generate some new models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to apply this to our example above, we need to regenerate our models.
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2758

class Comment < ApplicationRecord
end
```

### Declare `delegated_type`

First, declare a `delegated_type` in the superclass `Entry`.

```ruby
class Entry < ApplicationRecord
  delegated_type :entryable, types: %w[ Message Comment ], dependent: :destroy
end
```

The `entryable` parameter specifies the field to use for delegation, and include the types `Message` and `Comment` as the delegate classes.

The `Entry` class has `entryable_type` and `entryable_id` fields. This is the field with the `_type`, `_id` suffixes added to the name `entryable` in the `delegated_type` definition.
`entryable_type` stores the subclass name of the delegatee, and `entryable_id` stores the record id of the delegatee subclass.

Next, we must define a module to implement those delegated types, by declaring the `as: :entryable` parameter to the `has_one` association.

```ruby
module Entryable
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    has_one :entry, as: :entryable, touch: true
  end
end
```

And then include the created module in your subclass.

```ruby
class Message < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
end

class Comment < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
end
```

> With this definition complete, our `Entry` delegated type now implements the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this definition complete, our `Entry` delegator now provides the following methods:
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2827

```sql
SELECT "vehicles".* FROM "vehicles" WHERE "vehicles"."type" IN ('Car')
```

> Delegated types

Reviewer 3: Headings should be mostly [capitalized](https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/ruby_on_rails_guides_guidelines.html#headings).
```suggestion
Delegated Types
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2728

----------------

> [`Single Table Inheritance (STI)`](#single-table-inheritance-sti) works best when there is little difference between subclasses and their attributes, but includes all attributes of all subclasses I need to create a single table.

Reviewer: We generally don't use "I" in the documentation, instead we prefer "you", I think.

> but includes all attributes of all subclasses you need to create a single table.

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2731

> This has the disadvantage that attributes that are only used by a specific subclass are added to the same table, even though they are unnecessary attributes for another subclass, which bloats a single table.

Reviewer: This seems confusing to me, maybe too wordy? Let me try.

```suggestion
The disadvantage of this approach is that it results in bloat to that table. Since it will even include attributes specific to a subclass that aren't used by anything else.
```

Author: thank you. I replaced it with Suggest.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2733

> In the following example, the `Comment` does not need a `subject`, but the `Message` need a `subject`, so the `Entry` includes the `subject` attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, there are two Active Record models that inherit from the same "Entry" class which includes the `subject` attribute.
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2735

```ruby
# Schema: entries[ id, type, subject, created_at, updated_at]
class Entry < ApplicationRecord
end

class Comment < Entry
end

class Message < Entry
end
```

> `Delegated types` solves this problem.

Reviewer: We generally only backtick stuff that is actual code.

```suggestion
Delegated types solves this problem, via `delegated_type`.
```

Author: OK, I removed the backtick in the following part.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2749

> A superclass has a table that stores attributes that are shared among all subclasses.

Reviewer: I would rewrite these 3 sentences as such:

In order to use delegated types, we have to model our data in a particular way. The requirements are as follows:

* There is a superclass that stores shared attributes among all subclasses in it's table.
* Each subclass must inherit from the super class, and will have a separate table for any additional attributes specific to it.

This eliminates the need to define attributes in a single table that are unintentionally shared among all subclasses.

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2751-R2756

Each subclass should have a separate table for additional attributes specific to its implementation.
This eliminates the need to define attributes in one table that are only used by a particular subclass.

> First, let's generate the base `Entry` model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to apply this to our example about, we need to generate some new models. First, let's generate the base `Entry` model which will act as our superclass:
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2758

```bash
$ bin/rails generate model entry entryable_type:string entryable_id:integer
```

> The generated model will look like this:

Reviewer: I think we can leave out this part because it's generated for us, and seems redundant.

```suggestion
```

Author: I deleted this.

> ```ruby
> # Schema: entries[ id, entryable_type, entryable_id, created_at, updated_at ]
> class Entry < ApplicationRecord
> end
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I deleted this.

> Then, generate the `Message` and `Comment` models for the delegation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, we will generate new `Message` and `Comment` models for delegation:
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2764

```bash
$ bin/rails generate model message subject:string body:string
$ bin/rails generate model comment content:string
```

> The generated model will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated models will look like this:
```

Then we can include the superclass "Entry" model and schema below here, I think it makes sense to keep them all together in a single code block and looks nice.

Author: It sure sounds good.
After enumerating the commands to generate models, we modified the configuration so that all generated models and schema are expressed in the same code block.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2759-R2786

```ruby
# Schema: messages[ id, subject, body, created_at, updated_at ]
class Message < ApplicationRecord
end

# Schema: comments[ id, content, created_at, updated_at ]
class Comment < ApplicationRecord
end
```

### Declare `delegated_type`

First, declare a `delegated_type` in the superclass `Entry`.

```ruby

> # Schema: entries[ id, entryable_type, entryable_id, created_at, updated_at ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think we don't need to repeat the schema every time.

Author: OK, i have removed these.

class Entry < ApplicationRecord
  delegated_type :entryable, types: %w[ Message Comment ], dependent: :destroy
end
```

> The name of the `delegated_type` definition specifies `entryable`. Also, specified subclasses `Message`, `Comment` as the delegate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `entryable` parameter specifies the field to use for delegation, and include the types `Message` and `Comment` as the delegate classes.
```

Author: Fixed 

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2798

The `Entry` class has `entryable_type` and `entryable_id` fields. This is the field with the `_type`, `_id` suffixes added to the name `entryable` in the `delegated_type` definition.
`entryable_type` stores the subclass name of the delegatee, and `entryable_id` stores the record id of the delegatee subclass.

> Next, define a module that implements `delegated types`. Declare the `entryable` specified in the `delegated_type` definition to `has_one` association to `entry`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we must define a module to implement those delegated types, by declaring the `as: :entryable` parameter to the `has_one` association.
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2803

```ruby
module Entryable
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    has_one :entry, as: :entryable, touch: true
  end
end
```

And then include the created module in your subclass.

```ruby
# Schema: messages[ id, subject, body, created_at, updated_at ]
class Message < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
end

# Schema: comments[ id, content, created_at, updated_at ]
class Comment < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
end
```

> This completes the definition of `delegated types`. `Entry` now implements the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this definition complete, our `Entry` delegated type now implements the following methods:
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2827

```ruby
Entry#entryable_class # => Message or Comment
Entry#entryable_name  # => "message" or "comment"
Entry.messages        # => Entry.where(entryable_type: "Message")
Entry#message?        # => true when entryable_type == "Message"
Entry#message         # => returns the message record, when entryable_type == "Message", otherwise nil
Entry#message_id      # => returns entryable_id, when entryable_type == "Message", otherwise nil
Entry.comments        # => Entry.where(entryable_type: "Comment")
Entry#comment?        # => true when entryable_type == "Comment"
Entry#comment         # => returns the comment record, when entryable_type == "Comment", otherwise nil
Entry#comment_id      # => returns entryable_id, when entryable_type == "Comment", otherwise nil
```

### Object creation

> When creating an `Entry` model, create a subclass object at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a new `Entry` object, we can specify the `entryable` subclass at the same time.
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2844

> This is created at the same time by specifying an object of subclass `Message` in the `entryable` of the `Entry` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: i have removed this.

```ruby
Entry.create! entryable: Message.new(subject: "hello!")
```

### Adding further delegation

> If you want to make further queries on `Entry`, you can define `delegates` and use polymorphism to delegate to subclasses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can expand our `Entry` delegator and enhance further by defining `delegates` and use polymorphism to the subclasses.
```

Author: Fixed

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2852

> For example, to delegate the `title` method from `Entry` to its subclasses:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to delegate the `title` method from `Entry` to it's subclasses:
```

I always get this wrong :joy:

Author: Exactly. thanks for noticing.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2853

```ruby

> # Schema: entries[ id, entryable_type, entryable_id, created_at, updated_at ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think we only need to show the schema above when defining these classes initially.

Author: The schemas has been modified to display only the first time below and delete all subsequent notations.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2774-R2786

class Entry < ApplicationRecord
  delegated_type :entryable, types: %w[ Message Comment ]
  delegates :title, to: :entryable
end

> # Schema: messages[ id, subject, body, created_at, updated_at ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I have removed this.

> class Message < ApplicationRecord

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class Message < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
```

We still need to include this right? It might be confusing if that line is suddenly missing.

Author: indeed. Added `include Entryable` to avoid confusion.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2862

  def title
    subject
  end
end

> # Schema: comments[ id, content, created_at, updated_at ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I have removed this.

Author: I have removed this.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2855-R2876

> class Comment < ApplicationRecord

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class Comment < ApplicationRecord
  include Entryable
```

Here too.

Author: I added `include` here as well.

https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/46190/files#diff-d977574b785ce95fe656c58211c668992bf95214d52d3ffadb409ef8f69ad287R2870
